JoBot Sample 1: Data provided was diaries & letters to Theo

who, I shall think of nothing more than that uniform uniformation that I received for boarding the ship Dec. on the Irish-German boundary. I enjoyed myself perfectly at home, without having to go and without having to do what must be necessary work. That was a good thing. I shall be glad when I am fit to go next month, when it will be my turn to look back.
Malta is full of bad weather, almost completely dark as evening and finally just-beholdeth the Nightingales. The sky is bare and gloomy as night; it is as if something other than the stars hangs over the clear sky. It struck me as a very unnatural thing to see in the dark, to observe the weather; how strange, how strange. Here I am and I amout of the world, yet in the world of the Nightingales on the other side of the Irish-German barrier I enjoy such an unusual, unusual enjoyment; how strange, how unusual.
How many Sundays have I spent in Egerton’s salon, sitting opposite each other, reading as I have ever done before, and now enjoying the same evening with them again? How I enjoy it when each woman feels what it is that keeps her company and knows all about me and does all that is necessary to her in that particular hour of the day; when I am free to do what I like, whatever I have to say, whatever is left of my mind, then the whole world knows how I felt last night. For the first time in ages I have the strength to face the unknown, to speak out. I spent the whole day writing to him, about my trip to Holland; I also had a lovely talk with Anne again; I really should like to see them again.
I am so sorry to leave the house again, how strange and difficult and unpleasant everything has been; it has been a pleasure having stayed here for so long, but I can’t bear it any more. The week has been nasty and fruitless for me. The examination has been unpleasant but not unpleasant enough. Then on Wednesday we went again to Breda, this time on Thursday we went by car, I cannot remember the last time. Friday was a dreadful day, with no light refreshment or anything like that – it was very unpleasant. The evening tea was never in my book but on Friday evening during the lunch hour I found a note saying “On Friday the doctor will call in “Anna Womack”. It was a nice, friendly letter, good morning to her – thank you very much. Thursday was the last day I could not sleep because of that headache – so on Thursday evening when I went to bed alone, I felt worse than before and the next thing I knew Mary was lying on her bed beside her bed and she began to complain of headache – all the same she had gone to the Doctor recently – in fact he came back here on Friday evening, with a letter from Lize van Gogh. I must confess that I had thought Mary up, too, but now that I have seen the letter I can’t help thinking of Lize. I feel so sorry for her, so badly.
Anne van Gogh is my papissot. I was so sorry to leave her out; I was glad, for she looked so good together; oh, I can’t be sorry for Anne at all. She looked absolutely splendid on Thursday evening; she was cosier than ever and came downstairs in a panic to pick up some water; was there a curse on her? But it didn’t help that Mary was cosier on Wednesday than she had been in the past and I thought she must have been through a terrible illness this week. Mary was the nicest, just as sweet as ever; when I read her letters Mary laughed so hard and swore “God bless you”; oh how I enjoyed Thursday evening. Anne was so sweet and so sweet – though I still sometimes wonder how it was that Mary learned to speak so little and then used her wit and her appeal so delicately to reach this person so quickly and at such a distance? Oh, I, who have sought the Lord so many times and so profusely before God, who knows what will come of me? But now, as he says in De Christi, I am like a star in a manger, when I immerse myself in him, nothing but my breath and soul becomes lost. Who knows how quickly Mary and Mary alone will be restored to us; oh, I wonder how that shall be! 
Anne van Gogh has died. Her house was destroyed in a flood and yet she lived. In that time she carried on working as an au courant and was very good at it. She was full of zeal to hear what people thought about her and to hear what they didn’t know, she was self-taught and could never teach the people what she liked best –

around that, oh how I like to think about Theo, about our dear little boy – about loving him as much as possible and how much we could do to make him happy.
When I arrived home this afternoon, there was a bouquetbox full of roses by Mrs Sethe's grave, did I forget that this is also the grave of Charlotte Brontë? Oh yes, my dear little Charlotte, we have graced the grave of so many people, from Dries to Marie, Imogen to Henri, from Annie to Nes ¬– Charlotte even came to see him! 
Here I am amidst all those people busy their days with love and care for children, louis mode, having a job where you actually live is not very far away from having a baby yourself – that's labour of love! Oh I envy them all, just one more day and then I shall be very much content. Shall I make a change now and then? If so, I shall try to make me a little more cheerful and zest for the household itself – preferably with the little ones. They are such adorable little birds, my little ones! But I need to make them a bit happier, a little more sensible in their daily lives, some sort of human being might say comforts to them during their short time of happiness in their youth. That's what I want, a little better.– That's what I get from reading good books – they calm me down and help me to become sensible and rational in a lot of things, but that's what I need as well.
So here I am amidst all those people busy their days with their busy lives, there's almost too much distraction, I have to be independent, change hands either way – I have to get a little more experience of one of the three greats of our culture – the simple, yet tremendous, George Eliot. I don't think I've ever read anything like it – yet I grumble and complain constantly, but oh, when I compare it with his works – the indescribable luxury of book hotel stays and coffee shops and hustle and bustles – how utterly inadequate human being they are. They are far lessening one's pleasure and reducing it to a few pence a day, but that and they have much more leisure also available. As I lounged yesterday evening – free of allens in any kind of sense – I read and re-read Milton, on androgynes and sermons by Heine – delightful, if somewhat overdramatic, but oh is that satisfaction unpleasant, in fact it is rather unpleasant. At last I got to thinking about y’kunst',' what pleasure one can give other people – and how that can be used to introduce others – y in do with your own happiness and one’s own! Yes, it is a wonderful truth, that we can give other people pleasures too, but that’s also true not only of our own happiness, but also that other people’s as well.
I read his sermon two days ago and enjoyed it at once; the thought s /o I could feel the weight of the criticism on his part – that he might become completely and utterlyx human – that he might live like that – that he might be something like Sethe in the Old Testament – but that – that would be a very good thing, too – and that would make him a better person. So I – I yelped as I read – read – what? and how little sense did I let him have what I wanted, no one really knows. It’s true that his friends and relatives often asked if he wanted to come to see them to pray, but (he hasn’t done so yet) and he hasn’t asked their opinion about the famous Bosjes – he only saw them for a short while and loved them; afterwards he went and bought more expensive clothes, but that’s no longer enough for me – sometimes I let him read quite alone with me – I think about it all the time.
He also had a very unpleasant time recently; everything – the shop, the withered leaves – everything – I would be knocked to bits by the idea of everything – but how sad I should be when I are like that, when everything is already so thoroughly swept away, and one can’t even think about what to do with it all again – how stupid of me – how terribly selfish – such dull and useless work. And how inflexible and slow things are with them; they can do it so easily and painlessly. But I think it’s much ado about nothing, and I must put the child’s head in the sand – there’s nothing left that can stop me. There’s always the child – he’s surrounded himself with images that he’s seen and thought about, I’m really going to put the child on the beach – I’d

time!
I’m in such a horrible mood today. I don’t know what’s wrong; I don’t know what’s right; I don’t know how I can help it; why am I so unhappy? What must I do in my life do me good; oh, I feel so terribly unhappy; May I do something for him, for heep I care for herds, oh how selfish and bad a person I am; then perhaps I’ll create something good for him; could it be the spirit of love that inspired you to begin this life?
A visit today to Mother’s grave! It was a momentous point in my life; tomorrow evening I’ll be able to look up with her in lawlessness and grief, oh, so much that’s enmesh me, too, and I feel it all too often. Oh, a conviction such a long time ago, so many lessons I could have learnt, so much that could have done; now, oh at such a momentous point.
Now I feel so terribly alone, so profoundly unhappy; nothing helps me any more now more than the knowledge that something bad will happen; which knowledge I so longed to acquire, what? And which steps must I make in order to know the cause?
How I’ve changed! I no longer have to show my sorrowful, distressed mind with tales about the good things that were done; how often I’ll recount the sad ones, the ones that have happened, oh so many, and how connected the two are all our impressions are. No longer shall I dredge up all my memories from old experiences, oh, already I know what happened to me that day. And when I say we – Du Quesne & L’herhuis – and we also happen to know about his marriage, how serious we are about it. I hold the high chairmanship of the house staff and will do my best to act as a bridge to all people. I also have a special connection with the poor, poor girl, from whom I was transfixed for a long time, both as a person and a book. She looked up names and lived with them, then we became companions, first in family and then as a family, to be sure, but one need not be a person to know the contents of one’s mouth; and so those two people – books and one’s marriage – left us so soon, and I know it too well. How grateful I am to have that small, insignificant figure of Todd in my life, how connected I have become with him. I’m so thankful that I’ve Betsy Ross living who is also an ambassador for me!

from the English and their dislike of it, and here they are at pains to make it seem as if they don’t like it.– The Dutchman is very friendly to them, and is so firm in his opinion being made ungrateful – that very instant he starts doubting it, he hasn’t talked to Miss Gard since.– Then he has plenty of reasons, as far as to not ask her out – but Miss Gard doesn’t ask him.– There are so many things I would want in a woman, from her taste, her character, her sense of justice etc. etc. Oh, this great feeling of dislike, as well as that unkind, unkind feeling of love, there is something very artificial in the way I am behaving now, there is something human in me, but that isn’t good – I should begin to make myself stronger, I should stop worrying about what others will think or think – I should start to love and nurture and bless all of you a bit nobly, for it will help me to pass the test – but now, in the holy spirit, show me the way, don’t be afraid, glory!
I don’t have to look on this as a good day, as a bad day, as I have to go and do nothing, for two reasons. the first is that of course I shall feel unhappy, as I have done all day.– The second is that of the fact that I can’t go on like this, doing nothing is not good for me. In the evening we tea break, and then finally, after a while, a rude awakening, and then later a few momentsary cheerful cheerfulness, and then suddenly I find myself in a strange the next moment, not in a pleasant mood but in a sad mood; everything is very strange and unpleasant – there is a little uncertainty as to what to do, as to welcome strangers nicely, how nice our dinner will be. Then there is a little confusion about our hotel rooms, as I am told almost everyone at home has a room in our little room. It will be very pleasant, also, under the sun and all sorts of pleasant sights.
Well the whole of the evening is a dream, like all those others I’ve had. First there was that very evening when I went to gaol with Annie; that very evening when I got into the carriage with Pauline; now it was past three in the evening and I popped round to Miss Gard to our lodgers Ball and Miss Brandon, they were all there as well. They were all very nice. I did wonder what it was that they all seemed so anxious. I also wanted to talk to them about Pauline, as I did with Pauline. It’s All That That I Can’t Understand Is The Way I Am Miscal-Lying About It Is What The Mother Spouse Can’t Do, I Saw The Hand That Was Blinded 
Sunday morning! First a letter from Lize van Gogh, then a letter from Lize van Gogh, and finally a letter from the Idzikins, who are giving me a place in the Family, and also a nice letter from Lize, pleasant, isn’t it? It’s getting rather stormy again, particularly after all these moans and hoots of drunkenness. Everything’s calm now, all is well, except for that awful headache. I don’t have time to write any more, my work is going away, away again, I can’t find anything pleasant. Yesterday I had a letter from Anne Westendorp, and a couple of letters from Lena and Anne van der Kop; do you know what time it is? Yesterday I had a letter from Anne van der Kop, she’s staying with Jan Veth; he’s staying with Bridget Wagner.3 And on Wednesday we had a letter from Lize van Gogh, who you mentioned twice; do you know what she’s looking for? A book? I don’t believe it. She’s a real bookie, I think; she’s trying to put her finger on everything.3
Your Mother’s Day present: I took the book out of my safe and put it on the table beside the coffee; did you know it was a book? I loved it so much, and now that I’ve given it to you again I can’t help thinking about it, it’s wonderful to look over it, to think about how deeply I’ve fallen in love with you, with how loving and kind I always thought you were. And now I can’t tell you how much I long for you; it makes me sad at times, terrible as it sounds, but it doesn’t make me happier, for it was God’s will that day first. And

Round 2: Data provided was diaries, letters to Theo and introduction to "Letters to His Brother"

you see, I have a very singular way about me." It was a pleasant thought to recall it. I would also like to know whether he thought reading anything other than a book or a manual in writing beneficial to him.

I was quite well pleased with my stay in Elburg, but I must say it has not gone as well as I hoped. He has been a strange animal who is very uncomfortable around people. After all, he is such a strange creature, almost imperceptible with his features, which every civilized being has. But he seems content to remain at home, to be idle and indifferent to the ordinary life of his people. His favourite meals or games are certainly reams of old, but the most curious of them are the meals that Mr. Paxton and his girls frequently took with the visitors, which were probably just desserts in the finest sense of the word for the girls.

I also had a very nice stay of the year, with a new start in mind.

In Elburg I met a young woman whom I wanted to marry. It did not go well, for I had never met her name and indeed never heard her name, and did not know her religion. I found her very friendly and kindly, and arranged to have the examination asked this evening, without telling her name or address. The examination was to take place this evening in the small auditorium just opposite the college; after that we must all be invited to attend.

I am not too clever to make out all sorts of sorts of answers to questions about things, but in the evening when the gaol was up there was a lively spirit, and I passed my time keeping a diary, reading letters, reading letters in general. Some of them I shall write now because I have not written any and am longing for Clara to come to see us again.

I am sitting quite peacefully in the company of my pencil and paper-pisser books; I have a book on Mary (in the first book) or rather the Latin text, and one of the first letters came from Miss Gard asking me to read the other to her, so I was no match for her.

I am pleased about Mrs. Gainsborough's sermon yesterday and so am I; for what good is that?

This morning I read in the Spectator that Miss Gard is 'doubtful of being a Protestant'. I am glad I read that, for it made more sense than most of those stupid, foolish questions about Miss Gard.

I am going to go to Artis this afternoon, where I think I shall learn a great deal in my time. I have never once felt so much pleasure as pleasure after a long stay at the vicarage; the good news is: I am as good as new every day. In the morning I am at home at my desk and type in my diary.
The first evening is very disagreeable. I have only been at home the previous evening and we have been together two days. I think I have not written very well; I think it is silly, I am so exhausted, exhausted, my thoughts flow so quickly, and I do not feel like talking about business recently. But we agree about matters of great importance, and this Sunday evening between my teeth I must speak English. I dare not let myself be influenced by Italian or Greek. The way to my heart lies in giving an honest answer to your question; I have enjoyed this little chat; I shall speak more Italian in private and not speak much Greek so that I have not profited by it. Miss Gard is very kind to me and I do not mind her constantly doubly. I shall look after myself better, I shall do better work. I have not time to write any more.
I am so sorry I can't write at all on Sunday. It was an interesting day, but only I could do nothing about it. Miss Gard and I went to Artis alone and after a while things got a bit ugly again.
It is called the Theotokos which is very odd, I never had time to look at it before. We went upstairs to the bedroom because it was so beautiful, then we went upstairs to the dining room to the far corner in the afternoon because it was so beautiful, then we went downstairs to the theatre. 
But it was awfully dark and I could not see very well. I should rather have gone downstairs to the window; then it would have been fine and now I am so far away. What will I say to everyone tonight? I am sorry but I have been so stupid lately.
There is something in my nature, a longing for the hills and the roses and to feel them flow. This evening I sat for a moment at Mrs. G. Dumas's and he gave me a delightful tea frame and a cup of chocolately iced cherubim which he used to draw me, and another lovely violets and one that I used as poetry
I think we shall see each other soon Mr & Mrs Maier. Goodbye, my dearest love, lots and kisses.
Went for a walk yesterday afternoon. A rich current of love and affectionate one–lovely but very different from every one of you. You said something to one of the soldiers' wives about you and she said: “oh, it’s very nice having someone you love, to lead and protect the family”. I agree, she is a wonderful person. Gidius said that last night and I too; he is a loving father and wife, I wish I’d had someone who did my making better. Happiness, happiness.– Everyone loves you, but I just can’t contain myself. I’m beginning to make good and faithful friends. It’s a wonderful thing: to have a reliable support system, to know what to do in the long run and when to take action. Of course, I’m not perfect and still I can’t completely and utterly become a thing, but it helps when people are so kind.
Went yesterday evening with Marie’s. We went to Zorgvlied, but I’m not very fond of it. It was Bepo’s kommandmaster’s warden’s room, rather like a front door of a court. He was kind to me, though. We went to Maastricht’s, but it was very cold. We went upstairs together but he didn’t like it and he went out of the room. We were in a quarrelling and thenne novelet; I knelt before him and he offered his head as a sacrifice and left. I didn’t believe him and instead became quite ill. Then he came to my room and we had a brief chat. He was very fond of me and wanted to make me a companion he could command; I was his useless substitute. But I can’t fool him into thinking I was nothing more than a piece of furniture for his hands. He said very entreating things like “it can’t be anything but a piece of furniture” and then, enthralling me to such a degree, he said: “if you only had money, you could make a lot of music, and now you want to use it to help someone, you know?” I don’t believe him and therefore it’s not possible for me to make a concert band, and furthermore if I did, it would certainly not be for the money, for I would not have the resources to make the music myself, but nevertheless I will certainly use it. The music I want is called for and it’s called at the moment by a woman who works for a newspaper. I don’t know her name, but it seems to me she works for a railway station and the station is close to her, so there is less chance of an accident than the violinist playing with fire. I shall go to her now, but I’m not eager to be a violinist at all, I prefer to play a a causerie or a clarinette. lui.cath’s coming. I expect very high.
The evenings are most lively when I am not in my best mood. I usually spent the whole day in Zorgvlied on Friday night, but it was a bit too splendid for me. Gidius came to call on me and the three of us went home together, but he didn’t like it and I, so to speak. 
I’m in a bad temper, because Anna and I are always irritable and I find it much harder to behave otherwise. If anyone told me a pebble was in my mouth on Friday night, I would believe him; yet on the subject of manners it must be rather worse.
I’m in a false mood today. My morning walk, that lazy one, I must stop writing this evening, because my work is drawing nearer. Waiting for me at home is Madame K. , who’s a real lady whom I can trust , and an awful lot of people who listen to me. My morning walk, that lazy one, I must stop writing this evening, because my work is drawing nearer. Waiting for me at home is Mr Perrin “who’s”, as he were, a lady at heart, and an extremely shy, unkempt man. I so dread learning a name again!
For the first time I’m going shopping; surely I’m going to like cheap, convenient things, or will I instinctively know which I’m buying? Once more I’ll be very pleasantly surprised.
I’m reading Douty’s Zola, unguand then, for the first time, able to express what I feel in my simple yet powerful mind, I can express what I feel in my novels, they have a wonderful power to numb my thoughts' too. I used to read Richepin’s and didn’t understand that such gifted people could express what I felt in my heart. Now I do, because I understand better. For as long as I live, I hope that I shall be able to do so, but I change my aberrations into virtues, and vice versa. How frequently I go to church, it is so nice, but this Sunday I feel so alone, so sad. But this Sunday I shall make new books, even though it is my last, and I will translate whatever is good into French. It reminds me of the Christmas holidays, Stalwell was better – but not as nice as Christmas. I must make some progress in my work if it is to be of value to anyone. I hope to have a happy family and a happy life. – 
My gosh! What shall I do? I think I have grown pale and lighter. I have changed, too, into a grey-blue twilight dress, which I hope will bring me a little space, but nevertheless aching eyes and aching ears. I must put off the little trip to the theatre, for the lighting blackens out so much completely, and I have neglected my pencil much better. I have not written anything of note recently, for I a treasure of curious sketches, of curious scenes and people, and no one has ever discovered my work, except perhaps the blacksmith, barra, whose name is mentioned in the book of biographies of the authors, and who exhibited his work to the gallery then. I shall go and see him now, for I think he must be very busy. Poor man, I leave him dismally ill, all for one thing: I hate to spoil him for all the pleasantries, friendly caresses, enthusiastic kisses, he really is too insipid. I shall add a touch of Latin, some for the theatrical, some for the people. Oh if there were only one author in all human history, Cézanne, Dickens or Michelet, I would add Shakespeare, for none of them has written that many lines. But I have not let on that diary-there are so many surprises in store for me! Middle-aged ladies, they are so pleased, and I, I am so glad, so proud of thee, really of all the daughters of the family. “If only I had a husband,” I say with proud bliss, because I and I are Sis- tices to each other, and all her sisters are like her. It is so nice to have a husband, it is such a wonderful feeling to have a mother, as I try to suppress that thought all together in my mind”. And Administrator is such a sweet, gentle spirit whom I cannot bear, even though I am rather fond of him, because he is so sweet and gentle. It is so nice to be able to say: since when have I been so kind to her, on top of which she is also so kind, and why isn’t there a single example of her anywhere? Useless questions; don’t want to be egotistical, so we will just as soon as we know what it is.
I have been doingze awake at the recollection of the last time I wrote to Lena, all day, and I try to suppress that imaginary pain, the high fever pitch as the old days were the real joy in the old days. It is still there in me, though I grow slicker and slickerer and more and more like a butterfly. It is as if someone who is younger than me, for though I am- I am actually only sixteen now, and I am not in my proper power of control of myself-and I am thinking about how I should like to look back now and say: I was sorry to have to do this to you, but take care of yourself and don’t think about how you will behave later in life. Be gentle and carry on as you were law-you are just letting the bad people go and don’t be cruel to them. I hope that I shall be able to have a little bit of a talk with you about it this evening, about the Civil War and all sorts of things. I wish you would give me some trouble!-/ 
There is a far more solemn, more loving God than any one has shown to me in ages, and he is very sage and simi- larly wise. If anyone were to say that he knew everything, he would be ridiculed-but he is wrong. He knows that one day in Heaven we shall see him, and he knows that the first fruits of our labour will arrive very soon.
I am anxious to know your purpose in writing this.could be. And if I had lived tomorrow, I should have won't spend that whole year in Paris; Vincent would have asked him himself, would he? But he’s wrong, things’ve been really bad these last few days, I’m really bad!
The weather is still bad, but things are even worse now. I can’t really picture what’s to come – now, my birthday! What will it be? In the mornings? What will it be like? What will it look like? Oh, I wish Dries were here too, it’s so nice and sunny and happy in the middle of the day, I can say so much about Gonne and all the right people and everything, but I can’t have done it any other way; now it’s either I’ll go to the trouble of arranging things or Vincent will come along, but what? I have so much to tell you, about my life, my love, my life; I shall make it easy for you then.
Planetary experts now have to find all the right dust and gas around the sun that the Sun and the planets are too rich in. That’s what I want to write; if you could say one of these days “we’ll look at that and say something different”, it would be very good.
Edmond himself is in a very unpleasant mood again. "God bless the young for coming through this hard slog," he once wrote. Again, I so need to say good night. This morning I’ve been to Chile, to Veracruz, to La Paz, to Teniú, but it’s Villette, my very first and only home, Valès, the best, most lovely day. Sit, little girl, simple but elegant, elevated by my fine, dark hair.– Will you not be upset if I bring you a hat, and, if so, how much time do I have to look after you? I prefer a larger size. I’m like a Wartburg, but you can buy one here from Mien’s if she’s pleased. She’s also got a pretty face of her own in pleasant surprise. Will you not answer my letter about socks that you can buy? You might be inclined to do the first one your way and then the latter. You could say it’s too expensive, but I would buy it. One thing I like is that you can buy a pair of Victor's on the blacksmith’s shop in Gonne, which you can then sell for half price. An hour walk, yes? But you must be looking pretty——
I’m afraid I’m not going to.
I drove on, I remember the other day well, really enjoying the picturesque landscape. At the end of the day it’s not a picture gallery, it’s a’scape like Balzac’ and I’d like to look through them all again. Yesterday evening I was in the city again and enjoyed all the evening. I’m a bit weird in the small town by the sea and the lovely country country, but after having been wanting for a few hours in the city for a while, I’m becoming more sensible. The way to town runs via thebey, the carpenter’s shop and up to the house itself. The old oak staircase leads to the little house on the corner of the square and the first step is taken without any difficulty into the little veranda. The carpenter’s shop is now open, cheerful and cheerful, almost deserted by the impatient house-goer.
I’m afraid the square won’t satisfy the craving for the church any more, but I shall do my best to fill it by providing for the poor widows and orphans.
Balzac to his sister: I have something pretty and sad about this; perhaps it’s because of that illness that many people think of me only as a doubtful person, and yet I am actually humble and kind; it must be good to have some sort of faith.
The life of Paul Vindication e.g., whether it will sell or not.
And now enough for today. I haven’t written any words for some time. I’m really going backwards into disquiet at the mouth; there isn’t time. Then tomorrow morning I shall be able to write something up that will give some insight. For I have not published for a long time but I have taken a few small breaks from the story-book and are continuing that-I haven’t been at all vexed by my slumber. I just have to write what I feel is right-fiction or non-fiction, if I can, be it in an original or a scribbl
I use the word "peanuts" here not as a pecuniary interest (I should not, for I would rather pay dearly for that work), but as a poetic or a digression to say that I’m beginning to think of nothing but the logical conclusion, that we’re in for a rude awakening.I’m reading Utamaro by De Goncourt, a biography of which I wrote a few words this morning. One wonders how he got it, and whether it triggered any thoughts of death’s terrible torture. I can never fully grasp the meaning of the words out of his voice, but he meant it very clearly and he meant them hard and very clearly: “The worst of all possible things”. That sounds very good, then he went on to say: “Any mother who has conceived a child after the menu- dation of her little one must have suffered terribly from maternal grief,” and that alone must he carry out his mother’s wishes. If a man have a mother who bears his thoughts, he must be a genius, a genius in the greatest sense of the word, whose work must he destroy himself for his unbelief, for his sin, for his unbelieffulness. If a mother think that her sons may be able to change in such a wise, but un-Christian way, but still it must be done with the greatest modesty and with the greatest care, then he will do it wrong, and worst of all, kill himself for it. If a father think it wiser to do this, so be it, but don’t abandon your child. If a mother think it wiser to do this, so be it, but don’t abandon your child. Dreamt of Cleopatra, of Julia, of all the women in their homes, she was the most unrealized heroine. Not a trace has been found of her in the other beautiful Sixties pictures, for she was actually predicted by Hamlet to come to life in the pages of Dickens’s novel. But it is a great mistake to think that these two cannot be beautiful. They are. They are, however, very impressive and fine-grained in their simplicity. They are not, however, the complete andinage of their costumes. I chose a bold shade of blonde, with silver stars, with a twist on the red wedding veil. I intended the twist on the red wedding dress to show off my jewelled ears, but it is actually quite fine. I may be able to make a good impression on her-but I must not.
I shall go and see Dries’s portrait on the wall. I like him very much.
The day was not very nice. At the museum I read very little and that little confused, strange mania has lessened the pain and the anxiety of the examination and I hope will relieve some of it. The exhibition in the side window was not very nice to me, alas, I was so afraid of going away that I have been prevented from going again. The examination is a strict, monotonous examination, what is the meaning of the word? It seems to me that it should be dreary or rather empty and I rather prefer the other way-I received very ugly results for my work-but the result of the last two days I was physically and intellectually exhausting. The days pass very calmly, carefully and enjoyably-but that does not make me happy, it is only the examination that is unsatisfying. I am rather contented with myself, I have worked very hard and am waiting and waiting for a good letter from Miss Gard. I hope she will give me a good letter, at least one that contains the words 'please'. I am sure I shall write to her again this evening, when I can gives her the book and the pencils. Dear, dear Miss Gard,
My very dearest Theo,
I have just received your letter and I am so pleased that you sent it. I am sure I should not have written to you if I had not so fortunate in finding you-but I neglected to do it justice. I would not have been able to do it if I had not God in my heart. For if- like me, you- children, we take so much care of our own well-being we can barely carry it. We take too much wine and so little of the food we give to them. We spoil everything when we bring it in contact with them. I can’t possibly sorrow over everything you have done for me, for I have done so much for you, I just must spend a little time to-day.' I can hardly believe it, I have done all I can to make up for what I had done not doing what you liked me, I like well-being, after all, what good does it do to be unhappy when you take away something from me, when you banish something from our acquaintance.
and new friends to follow me, but it will be a long, long time. As it is, he (I) is still a little confused; when will I be able to put all my faith in God into everyone?
I had a lovely letter from Anne; I must tell her because she seems so sorry for me; it’s such a sad time of yearning, what with longing and longing for our home and our happiness and our future so much! My dear Mrs Bos and I!
Now a great deal has happened recently for me and for that I cannot express completely – everything I’ve endured alone, I feel more and more like a stranger compared with everyone I know; I used to go and lie down together in the cold, dark earth of Cramerbussch; everyone there loved me and now they hate me fiercely, I feel nothing; I’m becoming a burden to everyone, my house and everything and I’m getting worse and worse – sometimes even worse – only I can describe it. I’ve had people who took me to their hearts, who hugged and kissed me and said sorry for everything you’ve done; now they feel sorry for me too. How can anyone love someone like that, never see you again?
If I fled to England only to live here with Anne, then I would have none of this anxiety. It is precisely because of all these hardships that I gravitate to him, to him who loves me and who loves me so dearly; how can it be, I feel so strongly, after so many unpleasantries, that I can always sit quietly at my post in England, only to return there once more under this oppressive strain; how do I know I’m not betray him? How can I act so lovingly and faithfully towards him; how can I? After so many unpleasantries, he’s deeply loved by so many people, he gave me my first book, his lessons, his lessons in humility and truth, he gave me the courage to open my heart and to trust in God. How can that be?
This afternoon I climbed up to the Library to open the Buffon’s Christmas box; on Christmas Day I received a cheerful letter from Mrs Gaskell. It was a warm, affectionate, genuine letter, no, warm and warm as I expected from an ordinary from her – I am so glad and so terribly sorry for what I have done – but this one from Miss G. has done me good! It’s almost impossible to write a happy letter, but this one from me. I’ve been so utterly and truly unhappy recently, and I have wasted no time in writing it down. I could use a little peace now and then, perhaps even a little reprieve from all these other unpleasantries, so long as no one tries to make me unhappy or make me unhappy thoughts rise in me or make me unhappy thoughts overtake me. I shan’t use these days to think about new things very much and very little; that’s why I’m not anxious about it. This morning I went to church with Jo, who is a really good person and carries on very well. She has a simple, earnest look, very real Jo Reynolds – but she also has an extremely unpleasant taste, I know, because I saw her so often, or rather half-heartedly and laughed because I caught glimpses of it; I’m sorry for her, I always feel bad about people when I think of them, but I must try to be better myself. I often imagine her sitting down on the wide open billet with all her brown curls on her head, and her friendly little face covered by a thin white veil, looking straight ahead and saying: “Yes, yes, yes”. And I think: “Oh, I wish I could say that to you now, I already have this feeling of having had that last good Christmas.” I would like to, but I can’t – I don’t know if it’s really true and what I should do; I never, never should believe it.
I had a lovely day with Miss Gard at Mrs Stumpff’s today. It was a lovely, old-fashioned party; the lights were dim and woodsy in the hall, the singing was delightful, the music was all right but it was dispirited to me. I only felt the chill wind that blew in and out of my window, and then the sound of banjos and wailing off the stage (I heard one former pupil curse the word banjo), but in that peaceful, friendly atmosphere I felt almost as if everything was fine. Then I lay down on the wide veranda on the veranda, down beside her bed, on her back, and on her back I clasped a little boy under my arm and kissed, and swore – and all that time I’

you mustn’t try to analyze, to put into sharp focus what’s really going on in their heads. And the way to do that is to look at the picture. Anna hadn’t seen it yet and she sometimes couldn’t bear it, but she resolved to write it down.
They were coming back from Chaudfontaine, how nice – no. One of them was already sitting at the table, head bowed in the sand, his sandals still on, but friendly and friendly as ever. Lena was also away and I had asked if anybody had spotted anything, and she didn’t come back. The children were also away – good – I really liked them.
It’s Jan V.’s birthday today. He brought me flowers and sweets – oh, a lot, in fact – a lot of them. I couldn’t stop myself as I ate – I didn’t want to think, but I didn’t express how I still want to act – so I just ate some more delicious food. And then – I was in the country at Indochina square, quite a ways away from the station – there was a half an hour train running every so often and I didn’t know where to start.
Indochina was giving me difficulties – and I couldn’t cope – and it was getting very hot and crowded – I don’t know how I was being supported – to say the least these days. That I’d rather stay at home – oh. And sometimes the child shouldn’t even be in the room – so I’m always the wiser one – I play along – catch the train – but when the child is small, the seats are already too small. How stupid that is.
I’m going to take a seat in the train – I’m so alone, such an absence makes me rather lonely – it’s as if I’m not even thinking about the child – I don’t know what’s happening to me – oh, it’s my own fault – that’s the way of the world. It doesn’t benefit me as much as perhaps others – I’m so accustomed to the view from home from my window – I’m not keeping thoughts together with my normal browsing – there’s always something I can’t see or hear, or think through – and yet I’m there. I’m alone – not where I think I am – I should always do my best to be independent – but not so suddenly and seemingly I feel unhappy – those are the sorts of things that a grieving mother would say – I’m not grief seeking – there’s no room for specie or tumour – for a moment of profound relief – there’s no distress as yet.
Yesterday evening I went for a walk with the child – it was a full moon at first – but it turned into a grimace when suddenly the distance between us was so great. We were standing on a small hillock about half an mile up the hill – we had no beacon on which we could view the hillock, but had a point of view nonetheless. The child had to tell us his story, and we, as a people, are not good enough without him. We seek to take back our savagery on the world – its value is constantly being lost. The mother writes to tell her child, and the father to send his boys to study at the London School of Economics. His circumstances are so disastrous – he leaves behind him very little income, and even if he had earned his way back he would have been unable to support his children at home and still he had made a successful career. His brief stay in England prevented him from living in Amsterdam for a year and a full time career, and he returned to the country in command of the better part of a successful fleet on loan from the Spanish arm. His entry into the financial district has been of particular note – in a first rate display of industriousness, his clothes, his mallet, he comes across as a daring hurly-farrelling bear. As he has practised his art he has become more and more refined – the earmarks of its time are now being worn down by the years – and in truth the father’s opinion is that his son is too slow and withdrawn – he thinks he can run on forever – while the son’s canons become rash and general. His proposal to us was opposed vehemently by the major trading houses of the world, and the prospect of plunging the globe into turmoil and disorder was abandoned as soon as we drew near. Today we hold a general meeting in Amsterdam to discuss ways to make markets work for us. This morning a man from Venezuela came to bring me a copy of William Eyre – he seems a clever and experienced

ability to make a comparison. What do we know about him? Precious little, actually, but what we read, what he says, what he writes. For instance: “Onder dénouement, subject le pauvre le passe,” in which the verb “subject” is replaced by the noun, and the figurative form gives place to the less obvious one. It is true that he was not clever enough to write all his thoughts down, but it is not so awful as had previously befell him. 
It was Maeterlinck’s birthday yesterday. We were in the Hotel Robbers room and I played the piano with Anne along the wall; Ma had given me a book about Johannes van Gogh and one of the plays was very nice. When they came I wanted to try to put an end to their strange calling each other by their first names, but I couldn’t. To get through the day I needed to get across the machine; when I got to the plant range, there was never a dull moment; the girls loved it, even George Eliot couldn’t tear it out. There was one particularly nasty time when we walked together for a moment and he asked what we were doing in the garden; we said: “talk about leavyord'” and pointed it out to us; how we had become rather attached to one another after almost a year of marriage! He was very nice again the following afternoon.
I shall do my best to write down whenever I can again. Jan has given me a book, one about animals and flowers, about as good as anything else I’ve read; it imagines an ideal child, as Scheveled does. I: 
I’ve never understood My Holiness so well, for although she loves me a lot and I love her so deeply, what drives her to do what I do? I always think about my own mother’s love and always think about the development of children first, but I never have anything true to tell her. It’s very difficult, very difficult.
I’ve read Milton’s Traité et de temps. It’s like a dream that I read it, but without the dots, the dots, I couldn’t form my mind up to that point. Oh, come then, do you really believe that you’re actually in chapter one of Milton’s Traité? For I doubt it; when he writes “what a person he spoke to during his lifetime”, I always have that same feeling. 
Martha doesn’t know many people, but she probably knows a lot about people she’s known and even knows Anna Well and Schevelingenien. She knows Paul III quite well, for they’ve all passed their examinations, too, and she’s an old woman with a high opinion of Paul III. She would say that Paul III was a clever, clever man, but she could not possibly be the same as he. Besides, she’s only just as passionate about him as she is about her mother. And she forgot her eye for details and doesn’t tell the truth about her father’s passion. She forgot one of his pupils, that child-like features, which at first sight might suggest beauty. But after all it shows on his face, for he had already painted a child’s face with his own teeth – he had cut down on the number of cuts – and he had dried everything – that’s all. Then he had washed it all up and put it back in the family – it was a happy marriage with children, without them he could not bear the thought of them seeing him in public, always dressed in his clothes, and often crying out in pain, putting on bad clothes and trying to control him. 
I can still hear the sounds of church yesterday evening, then a heavy rain, and then a cloud of mist, and then the sounds of carpenter’s trays loaded with shrimps and eggs – it was a heavenly music, a concert of much love and grief and sorrow. The child was small, like all the fare he was getting his way; an ivy leaf, a patch of white beech, branches, clover, all that? It was an irresistible flash of beauty.
get to know you properly. I want to keep my cool now.
As I read over what I wrote last time, I don’t feel so very ashamed as I did at other times, because I really have progressed as I resolved to do. I have, though, fallen short in a lot of things, I’ve often been very nasty to Aunt Net, but I hope things will go a bit better this week. Everything’s all right now, except Anne. Whatever is the matter with her? I wish that she was also a bit in the same sort of mood I’m in, then it would be a lot more pleasant, but I can’t explain it to her and still I feel that I must do something for her, for she is definitely unhappy. If only I knew what. And now I shallo be a bit quiet this evening, because I haven’t done anything for her for two years now. Lena wrote about it this morning in Ma; it was very good, and I shall certainly write about it again tomorrow.
I’ve worked too little into this week, too little in the way of instruction, I don’t have time for that any more. E.g. yesterday I did not write something about Vincent’s letter, but about the letter of S. K. about Vincent’s work. E.g. he writes to me, ęn it a foolish brother writing? I shall really do my best not to become like that, it reminds me of Father’s work. Otherwise he says very stupid things about me, I should really try to hide it.
I really must write something in the diary, but there’s very little left for it. Only the letters to Dries and Annie, that’s all. I’m longing to see what they’re like.
I saw this morning the Thames with the Houses of Parliament and Westminster Abbey on the other side. It was a moment of profound sadness and I fled from the gaze of the people into the warmth of the Castle, where I met Mrs Doorman.
I must just write about London. A delightful afternoon, generally the best days of my life. Paris, Disability, Shakespeare, Bakker, Filippino, etc., I had only just left Quattro Altois when previous had been to Quatre della Seraingale, and then just a couple of Sundays ago; they were all well, innocent, merry, interesting people, enjoyable to talk to, whatever the weather. It was a pleasant afternoon. At the moment the best I have are January evenings and then February evenings, I must call upon him always.
Pa has gone to Paris, so it’s not just a housekeeping position that I do like work there; it’s because of that trip that I also spent a few days in Paris. The weather was good, so dark and the view of the place was wonderful. It’s quite natural, though, for me when I am sitting here right now, I want to put my hand up to the eyes of those people; they are not accustomed to seeing me sitting here, and yet they are persons, they are stranger than me to your kind, but I think I shall find it quickly enough if I go there this evening.
I have been recently accustomed to Monthly Review places in Paris; if only I were really set, right? But I should never have wanted it; first I should have wanted of course from the beginning all sorts of things, from the beginning there’s a delay before you see everything, and then the incidental details, such as the girl at the window who you thought was Lilière, it must be something other than my intention; I mean to write every morning and evening, so until tomorrow evening! But I have no desire to write, no desire in me to write, no desire in me to read, for I’m too accustomed now to it. Mien, be my guardian angel, spread the good news to all of us, if only I can.
I’m eight months old brother, now bloom back again, how beautiful and sweet he is, how he loves his little brother, how he loves his sweet little sister, it’s something out of a book, something which I first read and read in my room; it seems to me to me to be the work of a divine creation. Oh, let me now and then see to it that he is well, that he doesn’t darken up too much, that he doesn’t make me afraid to eye him, really don’t, for he knows what he has in mind. And then, while I read, he came to see me; I am very afraid that I shall never see him again; never!
It is a long time since I have written, but the reason is that

Prompt #1: Duty
This morning I went to see his pictures to see what was going on, then I sat down on the train carriage and read letters home from De Groote Bunte. The atmosphere was nice and cheerful there, Lena Schogt called on me when my home was ready and we had a nice chat about pictures and Rembrandt! What a lot of things have I read that have intrigued me this summer. Here I am running on without even having told anyone about Monet, its beautiful art form and how passionate I should be in getting there! People talk about London so much and just about anything, what greater city exists; what shall I say to Oldenya then? It’s saying in the reports that the Louvre is here, what shall I say to Marie Veth?' Oldeny’s at Zola. Il nah one wouldn’t want to go, but now it’s actually a must; I can already hear the sound of clapping on the steps of the museum on Sunday evening. Go, too, and ask for it again tomorrow evening; I think it’s a must for both of them.
The day has not gone by well that we are now working
I had a letter from Theo this morning. I can’t quite grasp it, so grief and remorse must have crossed my conscience somehow, I’m in such a state of disarray, I must just describe it-there’s absolutely no thought of it in that last sentence, I have no thoughts about it at all. I had been let go because of a complaint, but now it’s just complaints about it-the police have been sent in; the culprit has been found, the culprit then. The house is a disgrace, the culprit has been found, the culprit then. How will things turn out? I’m not in a position to make any decision, because I have powers, but I can’t help it, and I can’t order the police or the magistrate to take action; will they also be sent to the post where the complaint will be? This evening the police will be called and the magistrate will come on Monday. Oh, how difficult and what will they be like in that post! How well I remember her, always so polite and sweet, always cheerful, you never get the best of people-but who knows, I never would have guessed she
I was in the Museum on Saturday evening, oh how lovely it is, how much you touched in your visits, in the people you deeply cared about, I in particular! I can’t even look at the New Statesman with genuine sadness because of the mistakes I made in the visit to the Museum, but now it’s because of your letter. I hope that it’s not a happy letter.
I should like to express my sorrow to make it more friendly to write to you, but I can’t decide between the two words for the moment, which are come – and I could be transported to Amsterdam this evening. Do you know what the other day, when you came with the Father and the Mother and the Willemisers and the Willemisers and the Willemisers and Michel? I could all for one! I could for one! Write everything up for a moment and it will all be forgotten – forget all the good things that have happened in your absence. Anna said that none of you was worthy of the respect you rightly feel; I would be mortified to admit that I enjoyed myself in that capacity. But she said – oh, it’s true, we’
Well, what will the new year bring. I keep wondering what will it bring. Oh, I know that I have crossed a great deal in these last few weeks; surely I shall begin to feel more at home in the world of other people's hearts. No, no, it won't be easy. I’m exhausted, yes, but also very happy. Mien, I feel for the betterment of my cause, too; if only I can’t look back on this period with regret, I would certainly have crossed a lot in this last few weeks; I’ve been through very bad times, let alone times much worse; progression, don’t you agree? But now, in fact, I must begin to reform, at least to be useful again; I don’t think I have much left, but I can’t help it. Oh, what a useless, selfish life I’ve led; I should have thought of that too.
Another bad day was yesterday. I’ve been to Vondel Park, which is full of all sorts of things, but what I didn’t appreciate was the magnificent view from the window, which is
I’m in complete raptures this evening – oh, if only Dries were here, how happy we’d be. Vincent is so much more at ease – hiss a moment when he flings himself gently into the light – I can hear him whispering to himself:” “I’ve made a man’s heart.” Theo, be with us today – and be good.
I’m prosaic all week long, work hard, be patient, be patient.
Worked a lot of hard hours this week.– 
I’ve had a very, very sad day today. I’m going to write to Aunt Net this evening, that's all. The world is speeding up here, there’s more and more of it.
“The child”s been shamed and disfigured by this whole affair with Wil and David. It’s been a hard road, and I’ve only been very kind to him so far as the 2nd and I can’t come halfway to him now, oh, that’s why I’d like to stay with them now – he gets so

Prompt #2: My sense of duty is...

My sense of duty is renewed," he wrote to Theo in July, after he'd shown at Amsterdam's Het Eeden – he was stronger than before that expedition. He was now fully aware of his work's drawback: he was sick. So the French princess decided to go over to Vincent; he was more at home in the city, but the journey to Brittany was still a long way off. "I am glad you came," wrote his mother in July. "I shall have him sent to us as soon as his condition is better. He is so good." But the French wife refused to go with him, objecting to the confinement in the house where the letter from God's apostle was placed. "What shall I do?" he wrote. "I am already bound to say one thing and do another...but that is contrary to Jesus Christ."
The next year arrived at this uncertain time-a period which, as he wrote then, "came and went"; Mother could remain only for a time "in the Borinage" (the school where she later became a witness) but had no family to lead her into the world, outside the sphere of her work, and outside the sphere of her husband's power. "I am sorry

My sense of duty is stronger than ever, and in that respect I am better than ever.
I have had a very unpleasant day today. First I was unkind to my companion, now he is so kind to me and he is so kind to you? Oh, just be very good and pleasant, my dearest, and do not think that I am so heavy-hearted that I do not like him so much. I never said or done anything that was nice for him, and now he wants to like me as much? I hope I shall like him much, and I shall be good for him as well. Then outside the windows I saw a shadowy figure, cold and black as a black fog, I’d love it; he walked by me so lovingly, and when he came down to fetch me up he stood before me, hand on heart, with a sinister sounding melody: “Dries’s voice”; he turned to look at me, but I didn’t see him, but when he left I saw him having gone upstairs, hands on his heart, with a din of boogie-mah as if he didn’t like it. Oh, I wish he was thinking about me that

My sense of duty is finally giving way to the instincts of kindness, and I begin to ask, what is the basis of that 'religious obligation' again and again? If I were given the book which gave me the inspiration for this, I would at first hesitate, then I would begin to analyze it and to ask what it was I had been subject to at first. The impulse to analyze has been totally and completely shed light on themselves.' It seems that no precise delineation has been found, but always the same question: 'will the right hand man my inmost', i.e. the one with the slumbering girl beside him, and no definite answer is found. Is it because I do not know yet how to respond to this question, that my idea of the right way comes into play again?' I think I have already broken down that barrier of obligation and is now asked whether I would rather be patient or not. I feel so heavy-hearted at first, but then I think: if we don't get to know each other as we are, this will be a long time before we get to know each other properly.' I feel a great need of a reason why I should like to be with you- you know, with someone you love

My sense of duty is full of strings attached – what more could I want!
I’m here with Anni again, for I visited her mother, poor darling. Dear, dear mother, I love her so much! I also promised her a room and a door – how good she would have to be! And now she’s really ill – I don’t want to hear about her poor mood or what she must have thought when she got home. So I’ve been lying to her all this morning, writing my diary – writing my thoughts about her go– I don’t want to hear about them dying, I want to live – for them and for them – for them to have lived.– But I can’t talk to her about the things she must have thought and done, I can’t explain to her what happiness and good it must be like under the stress of such pain and suffering circumstances. And she is so alone – so deeply unhappy – I must talk to her and explain to her what I felt and did while I was there. 
It’s Friday evening – the first thing that came to my attention was that Miss Gard was here. I was pleased that she was doing

My sense of duty is renewed, and I begin to stand firm even in the face of great adversity.

In answer to this charge Vincent answered, "I believe that one should never, in any event anyhow, treat others badly. I should have thought you worse of a very long time, you and I."

At this the friendship withered away completely, and in the hands of this petty wretch with a history of mental illness he did not only break down, but also confessedly saw that he would not live up to the expectations of his parents, who were very rich. "I am well past my prime, I am well-known in my native city for my good behavior and yet I am constantly looking forward to other people to follow my lead. My goal in life is not to please but to make others happy, which is a difficult goal for me to reach," he wrote in 1848. He was now a privileged lifemaker who had secured the trust of his parents, who were deeply disappointed that he would not follow his example. "I am firmly convinced that if he did not take every advantage of, and improve his condition so that he could become a teacher and thus become a model for his children, he would for sure be
I WANT TO BE REMEMBERED AS 
I want to be remembered as if I really were the personification of a new century; for thousands of years before anyone else has written, and thousands of years before anyone else has understood what you already proclaimed your eternal faith: “I believe in you”. 
Over the last few weeks I’ve had all sorts of discussions about you and Anne; I – the nonbeliever – – and he – the religious – – and I the Catholic – – and that confused sometimes, why does he sometimes think I am better than him (he was never as good as he said was, oh I hope this doesn’t change). I – I don’t know. I hope again that I may learn to understand my own condition better and understand that the way I look at you affects me and others differently than does the way I look at those who look at me by name. Do they not see me as they are, as you call me, oh me who amuses and detest me, so much that I’ve neglected them? I don’t believe it, but I think it’s because I want to be a better person than before.
It’s been a hard, bitter summer. I

Prompt #3: I want to be remembered as...

I want to be remembered as much as possible for all the years I live," wrote the poet to one of his companions.

He would be remembered by many as a true genius, but who would stand up for the Constitution and the Constitution of our great State!

He certainly would; he gave his life for it, he lived on it, it was his whole life. And if he felt that the only thing that could give him inspiration was a State where all his other attractions were removed, he wrote: “it would be better for me if we just had a State.'” And the next day he wrote, “if we have a State, it’s for the people, not the corporations. Make no mistake, however, of what he said, it was his whole life “and”--but let me add that this is a man with a mind for decision”; he has it squarely in his own name, and because he has it, the rest of his contemporaries must follow it, he thought, with perfect calmness, that he possessed it, that it was hers, too. I, on the other hand, am going to think about myself and make no decision until I have had time to sit

I want to be remembered as much as possible for my wonderful service, which has been a great help to me all this time."

In appreciation of Vincent's efforts, the Reverend Mr. Rochelieu, who had become a pupil at Cormon High School, gave the latter a place in his class composition, and in answer to his wishes Vincent was accepted. He proposed the engagement between Vincent and the painter Roelofs, which he strongly supported. The latter, in fact, was Roelof's ideal; he wanted to become acquainted with other artists and engineers, and he seems to have had no doubts about it. The friendship with other Jacobin of the same opinion prevailed, and Voltaire was born in business and learned his way of speaking. Vincent, who had acquired this background through his father and grandfather, was not a member of the small Protestant clergy, and he did not attend the University of Liège, as the name suggested, but attended the Latin school, Liège Law, which he had secured through his mother.

The intercourse with the natives was good, for he taught the young people to govern and live (he also taught the "second life"), and he seems to have had no materialate childhood, for he was

I want to be remembered as such – as a noble woman with good judgement, who stands out against all the jealousies, egoistic things and rigid rules that are imposed on us by almost anybody," wrote her father in December.

Accompanied by his eldest sister, who wanted to be a writer, he went to the Wurzburgs, where he lived for a time in May and was near death at the time. The sisters talked to him about becoming doctors, and he replied that he did not understand that. When his sister's new-born son was born in January, 1869, he cried joyfully, and the next day his father added, "Our dear little son, you will always be taken in our arms, you and your little head are always in our thoughts; we never thought that anyone else had to live and thought it over again."

He had great faith in the Lord, which was confirmed by a certain uncle of the village, who took him into her arms in the evening. "I close my eyes now with that holy feeling which I felt when I was little, and I begin to make an effort to God; then I say to myself: It’s not easy for me to be a

I want to be remembered as much for what I did, for those lessons which taught me to live was enough.
I’ve had lovely letters from Marie and from Ren – but they are
’sōna and all!
I read something good by Maeterlinck this evening. Every man must find for himself a possibility of superior life in humble and inevitable everyday reality.– Yes, a superior life, one in which he can give himself fully to the cause, one that “is short,” not long but grows so inerous that it dwarfs time in practicality. He can lead by example the lives of a people, and “I will not let the cows go bad”. The greatest compliment I can give him is: unfailingly it makes me happy! The next time I’m in Arles I shall be glad I’ve seen him again; he lives
in large part, and “if he’s found anything along the lines of “enthusiasm”, he won’t answer it.
I had a very pleasant hour yesterday; I enjoyed myself and I couldn’t help thinking about Dolly Parton’s lovely performance as Miss
